# Autoencoder for Image Prediction and Enlargement

## Overview
This project implements an autoencoder using TensorFlow and Keras to predict and enlarge images from the CIFAR-10 dataset. An autoencoder is a type of neural network
used for tasks like data compression, feature learning, and image reconstruction. In this case, the autoencoder takes CIFAR-10 images, compresses them into a lower-dimensional
representation, and then reconstructs them to their original dimensions.


## Table of Contents
Prerequisites
Getting Started
Usage
Training
Testing
Results
Autoencoder
Encoder
Decoder
Loss Function
Contributing
License

## Prerequisites
Python 3.x
TensorFlow
Matplotlib

Make sure you have the required Python libraries installed. You can use the following command to install them:
pip install tensorflow matplotlib

## Getting Started
Clone this repository to your local machine:
git clone https://github.com/patllola/autoencoder-image-prediction.git

### Usage
To use this autoencoder for image prediction and enlargement, follow these steps:

## Data Preparation: 
The CIFAR-10 dataset is used for training and testing. Images are preprocessed and normalized.

## Autoencoder Architecture:
The autoencoder consists of an encoder and decoder. The encoder downsamples the input images, while the decoder upsamples them.

## Training: 
Train the autoencoder using the training dataset.

## Testing:
Evaluate the trained autoencoder on the testing dataset.

## Results:
Visualize the results, including original and predicted images.

## Results
The results of the autoencoder will be visualized, showing both original and predicted images.

## Autoencoder
An autoencoder is a neural network that consists of an encoder and decoder. It is used for various tasks, including image compression and feature learning.

## Encoder
The encoder takes an input image and compresses it into a lower-dimensional representation. It consists of convolutional and pooling layers.

## Decoder
The decoder takes the encoded representation and reconstructs the original image. It consists of deconvolutional layers.

## Loss Function
The loss function used in this project is mean squared error (MSE). It measures the difference between the input image and the output image generated by the autoencoder.

## Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome. You can contribute by improving documentation, adding features, or fixing issues. Please open a pull request with your changes.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
